CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing

## Where to start

All contributions, bug reports, bug fixes, documentation improvements, enhancements, and ideas are welcome.

The best place to start is to check the [issues](https://github.com/sanders41/meilisearch-tui/issues)
for something that interests you.

## Bug Reports

Please include:

1. A short, self-contained Python snippet reproducing the problem. You can format the code by using
[GitHub markdown](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/github/writing-on-github).

2. Explain what is currently happening and what you expect instead.

## Working on the code

### Fork the project

In order to work on the project you will need your own fork. To do this click the "Fork" button on
this project.

Once the project is forked, clone it to your local machine:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/your-user-name/meilisearch-tui
cd meilisearch-tui
git remote add upstream https://github.com/sanders41/meilisearch-tui
```

This creates the directory meilisearch-tui and connects your repository to the upstream (main project) repository.

### Working with the code

Note: This project uses Poetry to manage dependencies. If you do not already have Poetry installed you will need to install it with the instuctions [here](https://python-poetry.org/docs/#installation)

First the requirements need to be installed.

```sh
poetry install
```

### Creating a branch

You want your main branch to reflect only production-ready code, so create a feature branch for
making your changes. For example:

```sh
git checkout -b my-new-feature
```

This changes your working directory to the my-new-feature branch. Keep any changes in this branch
specific to one bug or feature so the purpose is clear. You can have many my-new-features and switch
in between them using the git checkout command.

When creating this branch, make sure your main branch is up to date with the latest upstream
main version. To update your local main branch, you can do:

```sh
git checkout main
git pull upstream main --ff-only
```

### Just

[just](https://github.com/casey/just) is used for development. When developing running `just dev-cli`
before starting the TUI will provide log output for what is happening on the screen. Then with the
CLI running you can start the TUI in dev mode with `just dev`. This will start Meilisearch in a Docker
container, then start the TUI. When you stop the TUI the Docker container will be automatically stopped.
`just dev` starts Meilisearch with no data present. You can alternatively run `just dev-with-data`,
this command will start Meilisearch and preload test movie data before starting the TUI.

To see a full list of `just` commands run `just --list`

### Code Standards and tests (ruff, black, mypy, pytest, and pre-commit)

meilisearch-tui uses [ruff](https://github.com/charliermarsh/ruff),
[Black](https://github.com/psf/black), and [mypy](https://mypy.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) to ensure consistant code formmating.

You can run linting on your code at any time with either directory or with `just`:

```sh
# Run black
poetry run black meilisearch_tui tests

# Run black with just
just black

# Run ruff
poetry run ruff check .

# run ruff with just
just ruff

# Run mypy
poetry run mypy .

# Run mypy with just
just mypy

# Just can also run all linting commands at once
just lint
```

It is also suggested that you setup [pre-commit](https://pre-commit.com/) in order to run linting
when you commit changes to you branch. To setup pre-commit for this project run:

```sh
pre-commit install
```

After this pre-commit will automatically run any time you check in code to your branches. You can
also run pre-commit at any time with:

```sh
pre-commit run --all-files
```

### Type Hints

At a minimum all variables/arguments that receive data should contain type hints, and all
functions/methods should specify the return type.

Accepted examples:

```py
def my_function(argument: str) -> None:
    ...


def another_funciton(num: int) -> int:
    return num + 1
```

Rejected examples:

```py
def my_function(argument):
    ...


def another_function(num):
    return num + 1
```

Type hints on files in the tests directory are optional.

### Testing

This project uses [pytest](https://docs.pytest.org/en/stable/). Please ensure that any additions/changes
you make to the code have tests to go along with them. Code coverage should not drop blow it's
current level with any pull requests you make, if it does the pull request will not be accepted.
You can view the current coverage level in the codecov badge on the
[main github page](https://github.com/sanders41/meilisearch-tui). You can run tests and see the
code coverage.

There are multiple ways Meilisearch can be setup for testing. The examples below use docker, however
installing and starting Meilisearch with any [installation](https://docs.meilisearch.com/learn/getting_started/quick_start.html#setup-and-installation)
will work.

Before running the tests start a Docker container running Meilisearch, or start with the appropriate
method for how you installed Meilisearch if not using docker. If using docker you can either
run Meilisearch attached or detached

```sh
# Run Meilisearch with the server logs viewable
just start-meilisearch

# Run Meilisearch in the background
just start-meilisearch-detached
```

If running detached you can stop Meilisearch with

```sh
just stop-meilisearch
```

Now with the container running, run the test suite

```sh
poetry run pytest
```

There is also an option to run tests with `just`. This option will start the Docker container at
the start of the tests and bring it down after testing.

```sh
just test
```

In additon to mainting the coverage percentage please ensure that all
tests are passing before submitting a pull request.

## Committing your code

Once you have made changes to the code on your branch you can see which files have changed by running:

```sh
git status
```

If new files were created that and are not tracked by git they can be added by running:

```sh
git add .
```

Now you can commit your changes in your local repository:

```sh
git commit -am 'Some short helpful message to describe your changes'
```

If you setup pre-commit and any of the tests fail the commit will be cancelled and you will need to
fix any errors. Once the errors are fixed you can run the same git commit command again.

## Push your changes

Once your changes are ready and all linting/tests are passing you can push your changes to your forked repositry:

```sh
git push origin my-new-feature
```

origin is the default name of your remote repositry on GitHub. You can see all of your remote repositories by running:

```sh
git remote -v
```

## Making a Pull Request

After pushing your code to origin it is now on GitHub but not yet part of the meilisearch-tui project.
When you’re ready to ask for a code review, file a pull request. Before you do, once again make sure
that you have followed all the guidelines outlined in this document regarding code style, tests, and documentation.

### Make the pull request

If everything looks good, you are ready to make a pull request. This is how you let the maintainers
of the meilisearch-tui project know you have code ready to be reviewed. To submit the pull request:

1. Navigate to your repository on GitHub
1. Click on the Pull Request button for your feature branch
1. You can then click on Commits and Files Changed to make sure everything looks okay one last time
1. Write a description of your changes in the Conversation tab
1. Click Send Pull Request

This request then goes to the repository maintainers, and they will review the code.

### Updating your pull request

Changes to your code may be needed based on the review of your pull request. If this is the case you
can make them in your branch, add a new commit to that branch, push it to GitHub, and the pull request
will be automatically updated. Pushing them to GitHub again is done by:

```sh
git push origin my-new-feature
```

This will automatically update your pull request with the latest code and restart the Continuous Integration tests.

Another reason you might need to update your pull request is to solve conflicts with changes that have
been merged into the main branch since you opened your pull request.

To do this, you need to rebase your branch:

```sh
git checkout my-new-feature
git fetch upstream
git rebase upstream/main
```

There may be some merge conficts that need to be resolved. After the feature branch has been updated
locally, you can now update your pull request by pushing to the branch on GitHub:

```sh
git push origin my-new-feature
```

If you rebased and get an error when pushing your changes you can resolve it with:

```sh
git push origin my-new-feature --force
```

## Delete your merged branch (optional)

Once your feature branch is accepted into upstream, you’ll probably want to get rid of the branch.
First, merge upstream main into your main branch so git knows it is safe to delete your branch:

```sh
git fetch upstream
git checkout main
git merge upstream/main
```

Then you can do:

```sh
git branch -d my-new-feature
```

Make sure you use a lower-case -d, or else git won’t warn you if your feature branch has not actually been merged.

The branch will still exist on GitHub, so to delete it there do:

```sh
git push origin --delete my-new-feature
```

Commit message:

Update CONTRIBUTING for new rust module

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing

## Where to start

All contributions, bug reports, bug fixes, documentation improvements, enhancements, and ideas are welcome.

The best place to start is to check the [issues](https://github.com/sanders41/meilisearch-tui/issues)
for something that interests you.

## Bug Reports

Please include:

1. A short, self-contained Python snippet reproducing the problem. You can format the code by using
[GitHub markdown](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/github/writing-on-github).

2. Explain what is currently happening and what you expect instead.

## Working on the code

### Fork the project

In order to work on the project you will need your own fork. To do this click the "Fork" button on
this project.

Once the project is forked, clone it to your local machine:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/your-user-name/meilisearch-tui
cd meilisearch-tui
git remote add upstream https://github.com/sanders41/meilisearch-tui
```

This creates the directory meilisearch-tui and connects your repository to the upstream (main project) repository.

### Working with the code

Note: This project uses Poetry to manage dependencies. If you do not already have Poetry installed
you will need to install it with the instuctions [here](https://python-poetry.org/docs/#installation)

You will also need to have [rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install) installed.

First the requirements need to be installed.

```sh
just install
```

### Creating a branch

You want your main branch to reflect only production-ready code, so create a feature branch for
making your changes. For example:

```sh
git checkout -b my-new-feature
```

This changes your working directory to the my-new-feature branch. Keep any changes in this branch
specific to one bug or feature so the purpose is clear. You can have many my-new-features and switch
in between them using the git checkout command.

When creating this branch, make sure your main branch is up to date with the latest upstream
main version. To update your local main branch, you can do:

```sh
git checkout main
git pull upstream main --ff-only
```

### Just

[just](https://github.com/casey/just) is used for development. When developing running `just dev-cli`
before starting the TUI will provide log output for what is happening on the screen. Then with the
CLI running you can start the TUI in dev mode with `just dev`. This will start Meilisearch in a Docker
container, then start the TUI. When you stop the TUI the Docker container will be automatically stopped.
`just dev` starts Meilisearch with no data present. You can alternatively run `just dev-with-data`,
this command will start Meilisearch and preload test movie data before starting the TUI.

To see a full list of `just` commands run `just --list`

### Code Standards and tests (ruff, black, mypy, pytest, and pre-commit)

meilisearch-tui uses [ruff](https://github.com/charliermarsh/ruff),
[Black](https://github.com/psf/black), and [mypy](https://mypy.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) to ensure consistant code formmating.

You can run linting on your code at any time with `just`:

```sh
# Run black
just black

# Run ruff
just ruff

# Run mypy
just mypy

# Run clippy
just clippy

# Run Rust fmt
just fmt

# Just can also run all linting commands at once
just lint
```

It is also suggested that you setup [pre-commit](https://pre-commit.com/) in order to run linting
when you commit changes to you branch. To setup pre-commit for this project run:

```sh
pre-commit install
```

After this pre-commit will automatically run any time you check in code to your branches. You can
also run pre-commit at any time with:

```sh
pre-commit run --all-files
```

### Type Hints

At a minimum all variables/arguments that receive data should contain type hints, and all
functions/methods should specify the return type.

Accepted examples:

```py
def my_function(argument: str) -> None:
    ...


def another_funciton(num: int) -> int:
    return num + 1
```

Rejected examples:

```py
def my_function(argument):
    ...


def another_function(num):
    return num + 1
```

Type hints on files in the tests directory are optional.

### Testing

This project uses [pytest](https://docs.pytest.org/en/stable/). Please ensure that any additions/changes
you make to the code have tests to go along with them. Code coverage should not drop blow it's
current level with any pull requests you make, if it does the pull request will not be accepted.
You can view the current coverage level in the codecov badge on the
[main github page](https://github.com/sanders41/meilisearch-tui). You can run tests and see the
code coverage.

There are multiple ways Meilisearch can be setup for testing. The examples below use docker, however
installing and starting Meilisearch with any [installation](https://docs.meilisearch.com/learn/getting_started/quick_start.html#setup-and-installation)
will work.

Before running the tests start a Docker container running Meilisearch, or start with the appropriate
method for how you installed Meilisearch if not using docker. If using docker you can either
run Meilisearch attached or detached

```sh
# Run Meilisearch with the server logs viewable
just start-meilisearch

# Run Meilisearch in the background
just start-meilisearch-detached
```

If running detached you can stop Meilisearch with

```sh
just stop-meilisearch
```

Now with the container running, run the test suite

```sh
poetry run pytest
```

There is also an option to run tests with `just`. This option will start the Docker container at
the start of the tests and bring it down after testing.

```sh
just test
```

In additon to mainting the coverage percentage please ensure that all
tests are passing before submitting a pull request.

## Committing your code

Once you have made changes to the code on your branch you can see which files have changed by running:

```sh
git status
```

If new files were created that and are not tracked by git they can be added by running:

```sh
git add .
```

Now you can commit your changes in your local repository:

```sh
git commit -am 'Some short helpful message to describe your changes'
```

If you setup pre-commit and any of the tests fail the commit will be cancelled and you will need to
fix any errors. Once the errors are fixed you can run the same git commit command again.

## Push your changes

Once your changes are ready and all linting/tests are passing you can push your changes to your forked repositry:

```sh
git push origin my-new-feature
```

origin is the default name of your remote repositry on GitHub. You can see all of your remote repositories by running:

```sh
git remote -v
```

## Making a Pull Request

After pushing your code to origin it is now on GitHub but not yet part of the meilisearch-tui project.
When you’re ready to ask for a code review, file a pull request. Before you do, once again make sure
that you have followed all the guidelines outlined in this document regarding code style, tests, and documentation.

### Make the pull request

If everything looks good, you are ready to make a pull request. This is how you let the maintainers
of the meilisearch-tui project know you have code ready to be reviewed. To submit the pull request:

1. Navigate to your repository on GitHub
1. Click on the Pull Request button for your feature branch
1. You can then click on Commits and Files Changed to make sure everything looks okay one last time
1. Write a description of your changes in the Conversation tab
1. Click Send Pull Request

This request then goes to the repository maintainers, and they will review the code.

### Updating your pull request

Changes to your code may be needed based on the review of your pull request. If this is the case you
can make them in your branch, add a new commit to that branch, push it to GitHub, and the pull request
will be automatically updated. Pushing them to GitHub again is done by:

```sh
git push origin my-new-feature
```

This will automatically update your pull request with the latest code and restart the Continuous Integration tests.

Another reason you might need to update your pull request is to solve conflicts with changes that have
been merged into the main branch since you opened your pull request.

To do this, you need to rebase your branch:

```sh
git checkout my-new-feature
git fetch upstream
git rebase upstream/main
```

There may be some merge conficts that need to be resolved. After the feature branch has been updated
locally, you can now update your pull request by pushing to the branch on GitHub:

```sh
git push origin my-new-feature
```

If you rebased and get an error when pushing your changes you can resolve it with:

```sh
git push origin my-new-feature --force
```

## Delete your merged branch (optional)

Once your feature branch is accepted into upstream, you’ll probably want to get rid of the branch.
First, merge upstream main into your main branch so git knows it is safe to delete your branch:

```sh
git fetch upstream
git checkout main
git merge upstream/main
```

Then you can do:

```sh
git branch -d my-new-feature
```

Make sure you use a lower-case -d, or else git won’t warn you if your feature branch has not actually been merged.

The branch will still exist on GitHub, so to delete it there do:

```sh
git push origin --delete my-new-feature
```
